---
layout: post
title:  FOSS
date:   26-02-2017
---
# Why FOSS
[FREE OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE](https://freeopensourcesoftware.org/)
## Relation of FOSS with Science
The principle is the same as with **science**. If everyone kept their methods secret science would develop a lot slower. We would see the results but we wouldn't be able to build on the research or verify the results because the research is closed.

So first and foremost open source has great leverage. Instead of a small number of people working on a project you potentially have massive numbers. Take Linux for instance, no company would have gotten it to the point where it is. For instance Microsoft Windows, which probably is the most expensive closed source operating system in the world can be run on a very limited set of systems. Linux is run pretty much everywhere because anyone can integrate it to the systems they want.

Open source software also increases trust. This is particularly important in these days of  cyber-espionage. If the software is closed source you can't check what it does. It could have security issues both intentional and unintentional (bugs) and if an issue is found you can't analyze why it's there or fix it. Instead you need to rely on the vendor. You as a customer can also trust that even if the company producing the product or just giving support goes bust or starts asking for ridiculous money you can easily change it. No-one can hold you ransom.

For the developers there are two big advantages: you don't have to write everything yourself and prestige. If you need a small change to an application you use and it's closed source you are again at the mercy of the vendor. If it's open source you can either do the change yourself or hire someone to do it. You can even tender this out. In closed source the price for changes are often very high.

So in short the two most important factors with OSS are multiplication of effort in much the same way as science has and trust
